Okay, so we've seen some of the special directories
that Next has and uses.
We've seen the _document directory,
and to handle custom error pages,
we have to add a special document, as well.
So what happens if we get a 404 today?
So if I just put in some junk here,
we get, Next will render its own 404 page,
and this one looks like,
it's not terrible, to be fair, it's pretty good.
And if you go to production,
this is what it will show if you have a 404.
And also, you can see over here,
just as an aside, a side note,
Next is pinging the server to see if that page exists.
So that if you're coding away
and you actually make a page, it'll render in the browser.
But in this case, it's not,
and we want to render our own error page here.
So the way we do that is we create a page, a file,
or a component in the pages directory
called _error, okay.
And that _error looks in here,
so let's just put some content in.
I'm gonna do export default and we're gonna do p,
oh no - it broke, okay.
Now, I've got a feeling,
because this is like a system file,
we have to restart Next.
But I'm just gonna do a refresh,
just to see if that's the case or not.
So, going to the About page and up there.
Oh no, there we go.
So it picks it up.
So we can see we're rendering our own page here,
and we can render that in our own layout,
if you want, as well.
So import Layout from ../components/Layout.
And I'm just gonna stick that in around our page.
And our error page is not being hot reloaded,
but certainly looks better already.
What about non-404 pages?
What about exceptions?
So I made this page called explode, okay.
So explode will render this p tag, the cause a function,
which throws an error.
So let's have a look at what happens if we render explode.
Okay, so what we see here is the,
I should make this bigger.
Next is giving us a stack trace in the browser,
we can see what's going on.
And this is not uncommon with React type apps
to have, you know, the errors that are shown here.
Now I think Next actually has like a mix of errors,
but it's not too bad.
However, in production this won't show.
So let me show you what will happen in production.
So let's stop our npm run dev,
and instead we're gonna run npm run build,
which would be kind of a pre-process, or deploys production.
And then when we run in production, it's actually
an npm start, okay.
So just runs Next start.
If we go over to this page,
and I go to About, okay,
we're looking at a 404 page, okay,
that's what we expected.
If we go to the explode page,
we also get the same error page.
Okay, it's logging out some extra errors here,
but it is rendering our custom error message.
It's just not using it when we're in development mode,
because we won't be to able to see the stack trace.
All right, and actually in the error,
we have a bit more, there's a bit more detail
we can get into this.
So it broke is one thing,
but like showing one error for a 404
and a different error for a 500, is pretty more useful.
So if we go over to GitHub next,
there is, I believe, an example error page.
There you go.
So I'm just gonna copy and paste this, okay.
And I promise we will go on to getInitialProps
in the next video.
So I'm gonna import react.
In fact, I'm not gonna import react,
I'm gonna import Component from react.
And we're gonna export this error class.
I'm just gonna reuse my here, oh, layout.
Where are we?
Let's go over here.
Because this is being built,
we're running from start, not npm dev,
then this won't update.
So I'm just gonna do npm run build
and npm start, again,
so we can see how this affects things.
So I'm just waiting for it to build.
So the difference here is that
actually we're using this getInitialProps.
And if there is an error in the page,
it'll pass in an error object into this InitialProps.
And this is useful for our error page.
Right, so if we run this now,
and you kind of see a couple of flickers of things
going on there.
So let's do a 404.
Okay, so it's printing two things here.
I think it's, oh, yeah, sorry.
It's printing the status code,
and then when we have a local exception,
there is a server side error and a client side error.
So the server side also broke,
but the client side, broke, as well,
yeah, because both rendered.
So we're seeing, with JavaScript disabled,
so let's disable JavaScript,
we can see that the server is dealing up this error
and saying there was a 500 in the response.
And in the client side, this object doesn't exist.
I'll go into the details of getInitialProps
in the next video, but for the moment,
basically there is no statusCode in a client side,
which kind of makes sense, right?
There's no statusCode.
So, enable JavaScript.
When we refresh, two things are being rendered,
we get the server side render,
which is we have the 500 and then an error occurred here.
And actually what we could do is pass down
the error message itself by doing something like
err.message, blank.
And we could put, let's say this.props.err,
and then do a colon.
I'm just gonna stop and start the whole thing again.
Again, I'm doing this so that
we don't have the stack trace.
We would see this if we were doing 404 testing,
but because of the dev mode gives a stat trace,
we're not able to kind of look at what's going on here.
Right, so here we go.
We can see this is the message in the error object,
and then this was the client side task.
So we could actually just use props.err.
I think it shows us, you briefly see that.
Let's go again to disable JavaScript.
You can see explode.
That's actually this.
So that's first of all how you create
your own bespoke error page.
Because this is a class, you could actually
make it a component in unto itself.
So you could reuse this component and pass in
different errors into it.
And you have to bear in mind that the error
on the server side may not be the same as the error
on the client side.
And, you know, it might be that you use tools like Century
or Loglia, something like that,
to store all your logs.
And you could do it in this get initial props.
You could fire off a request,
like post a request off to your Century
with the actual error that is occurring at this point.
And that's how to do a custom error page.
And in the next video,
I am gonna finally talk about getInitialProps.